国际化和本地化(Globalization and Localization)

如何获取语言

操作目标
1. 字符串比较算法
2. 日期表示方式
3. 数字表示方式
4. 文本语言

## Standard ECAM-402 Internationalization API Spec - Intl 
`Intl.Collator` - constructor for collators, which enable language sensitive string comparison.
```
new Intl.Collator([locales[, options]])
```
options
localeMatcher - locale matching algorithm to use.
              - possible values: 'best fit' | 'lookup'

usage - whether the comparison is for sorting or for searching for matching strings.
      - possible values: 'sort' | 'search'  

sensitivity - possible value:
                base, Only strings that differ in base letters compare as unequal.
                accent, Only strings that differ in base letters or accents and other diacritic marks compare as unequal.
                case, Only strings that differ in base letters or case compare as unequal.
                variant, default value. Strings that differ in base letters, accents and other diacritic marks, or case compares unequal.

ignorePunctuation - Whether punctuation should be ignore.
                  - default value: false | true

numeric - whether numeric collation should be used, such that "1" < "2" < "10"
        - default value: false | true

caseFirst - whether upper case or lower case should sort first.
          - default values: "false" | "upper" | "lower"

```
Intl.Collator.prototype.compare(a, b)
```
```
Intl.Collator.prototype.resolvedOptions()
```
returns a new object with properties reflecting the locale and collation options computed during initialization of the object.

`Intl.DateTimeFormat`, a constructor for objects that enable language sensitive date and time formatting.
```
new Intl.DateTimeFormat([locales[, options]])
```
localeMatcher - locale matching algorithm to use.
              - possible values: 'best fit' | 'lookup'
timeZone - possible values: [IANA time zone database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones) such as "Asia/Shanghai", "Asia/Kolkata", "America/New_York", "UTC"
timeZoneName - the representation of the time zone name
             - possible values: "short" | "long"

hour12 - whether to use 12-hour time(as opposed to 24-hour time)
       - possible values: false | true, default value is locale dependent
year - the representation of the year 
     - possible values: "numeric" | "2-digit"
month - the representation of the month
      - possible values: "numeric" | "2-digit" | "narrow" | "short" | "long"
day - the representation of the day
    - possible values: "numeric" | "2-digit"
hour - the representation of the hour
     - possible values: "numeric" | "2-digit", default value is undefined.
minute - the representation of the minute
       - possible values: "numeric" | "2-digit", default value is undefined.
second - the representation of the second
       - possible values: "numeric" | "2-digit", default value is undefined.
era - the representation of the era
    - possible values: "numeric" | "2-digit", default value is undefined.
weekday - the representation of the weekday
        - possible values: "narrow" | "short" | "long"

`Intl.NumberFormat([locales[, options]])`
```
new Intl.NumberFormat([locales[, options]])
```
localeMatcher - locale matching algorithm to use.
              - possible values: 'best fit' | 'lookup'
style - the formatting style to use
      - possible values: "decimal" | "currency" | "percent"
currency - the currency to use in currency formatting. such as "USD"for the US dollar, "EUR" for the euro, or "CNY" for the Chinese RMB.[Current currency & funds code first](http://www.currency-iso.org/en/home/tables/table-a1.html)
currencyDisplay - how to display the currency in currency formatting.
                - possible values: "symbol" | "code" | "name"

useGrouping - whether to use grouping separators, such as thousands separators or thousand/lakh/crore separators.
            - possible values: false | true

minimumIntegerDigits - the minimum number of integer digits to use
                     - possible values: 1-21
maximumFractionDigits
minimumFractionDigits

minimumSignificantDigits
maximumSignificantDigits


String.prototype.localeCompare()
Number.prototype.toLocaleString()
Date.prototype.toLocaleString()
Date.prototype.toLocaleDateString()
Date.prototype.toLocaleTimeString()

lang属性用于制定元素的**属性值**以及**元素的内容文字所用**的基准语言
有利于：
1. 搜索引擎
2. 语音合成
3. 选择用于高品质印刷时的符号字体
4. 选择一套引号
5. 解决连字符、绑定和空格
6. 进行拼写检查和语法检查

默认值与浏览器navigator.language一致。
当不一致时，Chrome会提示是否翻译。

locale
zh,en等属于macrolang
CN,TW,HK等属于regionlang
cmn(国语),yue(粤语),wuu(沪语)

zh-Hans表示简体
zh-Hant表示繁体

zh-cmn表示国语
Language Tag
language-extlang-script-region-variant-extension-privateuse

language/marcolang
fr(法语),es(西班牙语),zh(汉语),en(英文)

```
hi          : Hindi
de-AT       : German as used in Austria
zh-Hans-CN  : Chinese written in simplified characters as used in China
```

```
Language-Tag = langtag
             / privateuse
             / grandfathered

langtag = language
          ["-" script]
          ["-" region]
          *("-" variant)
          *("-" extension)
          ["-" privateuse]

language = 2*3ALPAH
           ["-" extlang]
         / 4ALPHA
         / 5*8ALPHA

extlang = 3ALPHA
          *2("-" 3ALPHA)

script = 4ALPHA

region = 2ALPHA
       / 3DIGIT

variant = 5*8alphanum
        / (DIGIT 3alphanum)

extension = singleton 1*("-" (2*8alphanum))

singleton = DIGIT
          / %x41-57
          / %x59-5A
          / %x61-77
          / %x79-7A

privateuse = "x" 1*("-" (1*8alphanum))

grandfathered = irregular
              / regular
```

`privateuse`, starts with 'x' indicates that the language tag consists solely of subtags whose meaning is defined by private agreement.For example, in the tag `x-zh-CN`, the subtags `zh` and `CN` do not represent the zhongwen language or the country of China unless there is a private agreement in place to do so.

`grandfathered`, starts with 'i'.


Primary language subtag - language

Extend language subtag
&emsp;used to identify certain specially selected languages that, for various historical and compatibility reasons.
```
zh-yue ;Cantonese Chinese
zh-gan ;Gan Chinese
zh-cmn ;Mandarin Chinese
```
`zh` is macrolanguage, and it could be stil used solely to label  a resource as some unspecified variety of Chinese.
But we could use `yue`, `gan` and `cmn` directly to indicate the specific variety of Chinese.

"Macrolanguage"
&emsp;Macrolanguage's field-body contains a primary language subtag defined by [ISO 639-3]() as the "macrolanguage" that encompasses this language subtag. 
macrolanguage means "clusters of closely-related language variaties".
`zh-yue` is called an "encompassed language"

Script subtag
&emsp;used to indicate the script or writing system variations that distinguish the written forms of a language or its dialects.

Region subtag
&emsp;used to indicate linguistic variations(dialects, spelling conventions) associationed with or appropriate to a specific country, territory, or region.
```
region = 2ALPHA
       / 3DIGIT
```
2ALPHA were defined according to the assignments found in [ISO3166-1]()
3DIGIT were defined according to the assignments found in [UN_M.49]()

Variant subtag
&emsp;used to indicate additinal, well-recognized variations that define a language or its dialects that are not covered by other available subtags.
```
variant = 5*8alphanum
        / (DIGIT 3alphanum)
```
```
"de-CH-1996" represents German as used in Switzerland and as written using the spelling reform beginning in the year 1996 C.E.

Extension subtag
&emsp;a mechanism for extending language tags for use in various applications. They are intended to identify information that is commonly used in association with language or language tags but that is not part of language identification.
```
extension = singleton 1*("-" (2*8alphanum))

singleton = DIGIT
          / %x41-57
          / %x59-5A
          / %x61-77
          / %x79-7A
```

language-sensitive tasks(appropriate fonts or other styling, swtiching voice in text to speech, spell-checking, etc.)

## Content Negotiation(内容协商)
&emsp;HTTP提供的，当有多个可得到的表现形式时，对特定内容选择最好的表现形式的处理过程。包括语言、编码、用于屏幕展现还是用于打印等。
分类：
1. 服务端驱动协商(Server-driven Negotiation)
2. 代理端驱动协商(Agent-driven Negotiation)

internationalization/localization is language-based content negotiation.


## REF
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5646
http://www.zhihu.com/question/20797118
https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec12.html
